Week 3 log:

This week, I collected additional data from the camera and other sensors that are mounted on the unmanned ground vehicle (UGV). The UGV was ran on a grassy terrain to add to the training dataset. For this data collection, I repositioned the camera to remove the possibility of capturing external objects which were not related to the terrain (cars, building, etc.) which was an issue with some images within the previously collected training dataset. To fix this issue, the camera was moved closer to the base of the UGV and additionally, the camera was pointed more towards the ground/terrain so that unrelated objects were not captured. The newly collected training dataset is published on the Github page under “EnergyConsumptionPredictionFiles/data/training_dataset”.

I also did research on the various pretrained models that can be utilized for predicting the energy cost of our UGV when traversing through various terrains. For this project, I chose to use the ResNet18 model which contains a convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture. This model will be utilized with the image data obtained from the camera to extract and save the image features, such as edges or certain shapes, as a feature vector. In addition to using the image data, we aim to utilize collected numerical data from the other sensors located on the UGV (RTK GPS data, telemetry, odometry, and inertial measurement unit data). The extracted image feature vector obtained from the CNN model along with the numerical data obtained from the robots other sensors, will be utilized as inputs to train a feed-forward neural network called multi-layer perception (MLP). These specific models were chosen in order to interpret the image data and numerical data together, where the CNN model will be used to extract each image's features numerically and MLP will then be utilized for interpreting both the image data and numerical data together. 

Additionally, I started working on generating code that implements the use of the CNN model as well as MLP for training and predicting energy cost of our UGV when navigating through different surfaces. 

